Update Fedcm canonical page (#4098)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/privacy-sandbox/fedcm/index.md

This document outlines a new proposal for identity federation: the Federated
Credential Management API (FedCM).

> *  The [FedCM proposal](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM) is open for [public

Reviewer: We should probably highlight the potential backwards incompatible change in `Implementation status`.

Reviewer: And link the mailing group as well.

Author: I have this fixed on my laptop. Will push the change once I get to it.

Reviewer: Thanks for highlighting the potential change. Do you think it's worth adding the Google Group mailing list?

Author: Added.

   discussion](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues).
*  [FedCM origin trial](/blog/fedcm-origin-trial) ends in Chrome 107 and FedCM
   is shipped in Chrome 108.

> *  FedCM isn't supported in other browsers yet, but Mozilla is [implementing a

Reviewer: Here we have "Mozilla", "Firefox" and "WebKit". Could you use more consistent terms w.r.t. venders/browsers/engines?

Author: I have this fixed on my laptop. Will push the change once I get to it.

Author: This should have been addressed.

> *  The [FedCM proposal](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM) is [discussed
>    publicly](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues).
> *  [FedCM's origin trial](/blog/fedcm-origin-trial) ends in Chrome 107 and FedCM
>    is shipped since Chrome 108.
> *  FedCM isn't supported by other browsers yet, but Mozilla is [implementing a
>    prototype](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1782066) to Firefox,
>    and [WebKit team has expressed general
>    support](https://lists.webkit.org/pipermail/webkit-dev/2022-March/032162.html)
>    and interest in working together on the FedCM proposal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*  The [FedCM proposal](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM) is open for [public
   discussion](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues).
*  [FedCM origin trial](/blog/fedcm-origin-trial) ends in Chrome 107 and FedCM
   is shipped in Chrome 108.
*  FedCM isn't supported in other browsers yet, but Mozilla is [implementing a
   prototype](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1782066) in Firefox,
   while the [WebKit team has expressed general
   support](https://lists.webkit.org/pipermail/webkit-dev/2022-March/032162.html)
   and interest in working together on the FedCM proposal.
```

This document outlines a new proposal for identity federation: the Federated
Credential Management API (FedCM).

*  The [FedCM proposal](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM) is open for [public
   discussion](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues).
*  FedCM is shipped in Chrome 108.
*  FedCM isn't supported in other browsers yet, but Firefox team is
   [implementing a
   prototype](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1782066), while the

>    [Apple has expressed general

Reviewer: s/Apple/Safari to be consistent with Firefox above

and browser vendors. While we hope identity providers will adopt FedCM, please
be aware that FedCM is still an API under active development and that backward
incompatible changes are expected until Q4 2023.

To minimize the challenges of deploying backwards incompatible changes, we
currently have two recommendations for identity providers:

* Subscribe to our
  [newsletter](https://groups.google.com/g/fedcm-developer-newsletter) where we
  will send updates as the API evolves.
* We encourage IdPs to distribute the FedCM API via JavaScript SDKs while the
  API is maturing, and to discourage RPs from self-hosting SDKs. This will
  ensure IdPs can make changes as the API evolves, without having to ask all of
  their relying parties to redeploy.

## Why do we need FedCM?

Over the last decade, identity federation has played a central role in raising
the bar for authentication on the web, in terms of trustworthiness, ease-of-use
(for example, passwordless single sign-in) and security (for example, improved
resistance to phishing and credential stuffing attacks) compared to per-site
usernames and passwords. 

> With identity federation, a RP (relying party) relies on an IdP (identity

Reviewer: s/a RP/an RP

### What do we expect will be affected?

{% Aside 'caution' %}

> We aim to mitigate all tracking vectors on Chrome with the [Privacy Sandbox
> initiative](https://privacysandbox.com/). Our first step is to reduce the impact
> of third-party cookie phase-out which is already happening on other browsers,
> and is [planned in Chrome for
> 2024](https://blog.google/products/chrome/update-testing-privacy-sandbox-web/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The aim of the [Privacy Sandbox initiative](https://privacysandbox.com/) 
is to mitigate all tracking vectors in Chrome. Our first step is to reduce the impact
of third-party cookie phase-out which is already happening in other browsers,
and is [planned in Chrome for
2024](https://blog.google/products/chrome/update-testing-privacy-sandbox-web/).
```

### You're an IdP {: #idp }

FedCM requires support from an identity provider. A relying party cannot use

> FedCM independently. If you are a RP, you can ask your IdP to provide

Reviewer: s/a RP/an RP

In the future, we hope to support more features, including:

> Short-term:

Reviewer: I noticed that there's some update in the "shipping" doc on this section. Could you sync the change here?

RPs are expected to support browsers which don't support FedCM. Users should
be able to use an existing, non-FedCM sign-in process. Learn more about [how
sign-in works in the FedCM](#sign-into-rp).

> ### Setting to enable or disable FedCM {: #user-settings}

Reviewer: It's worth mentioning "exponential cooldown" in this section. In addition, users can manage FedCM on a per-RP basis. e.g. if a user dismissed the UI, an entry would be added to settings UI as displayed in the screenshot below. Users can reenable FedCM on the RP by either going to settings or clicking on the PageInfo UI (lock icon) and reset the permission.

   width="800", height="678", class="screenshot"
%}

## Roadmap {: #roadmap}

We are working on landing a number of changes on the FedCM.

There are a few things we know that still need to be done, including issues we
heard about from IdPs, RPs and browser vendors. We believe we know how to
resolve these issues:

* **Cross-origin iframe support**: IdPs can call FedCM from within a
  cross-origin iframe.
* **Personalized button**: IdPs can display a returning user's identity on the

>   sign-in button from within a cross-origin iframe.

Reviewer: within an IdP owned cross-origin iframe

* **Metrics endpoint**: Provides performance metrics to IdPs.

Additionally, there are unresolved issues we are actively exploring including
specific proposals that we are evaluating or prototyping:

* **CORS**: We are [discussing with Apple and
  Mozilla](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/320) if and how FedCM should
  use CORS.
* **Multiple-IdP API**: We are exploring ways to support [multiple
  IdPs](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/319) to coexist cooperatively in
  the FedCM account chooser.
* **IdP Sign-in Status API**: Mozilla has identified a [timing attack
  issue](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/230), and we are exploring ways
  for an IdP to proactively [notify the browser of the user's sign-in
  status](https://fedidcg.github.io/FedCM/#the-idp-sign-in-status-api) to
  mitigate the issue.
* **Sign in to IdP API**: To support [various
  scenarios](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/348), when a user is not
  signed in to the IdP, the browser provides a UI for the user to sign in
  without leaving the RP.

Finally, there are things we believe still need to be done, based on feedback
from

> [Mozila](https://github.com/mozilla/standards-positions/issues/618#issuecomment-1221964677),

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Mozilla](https://github.com/mozilla/standards-positions/issues/618#issuecomment-1221964677),
```

[Apple](https://lists.webkit.org/pipermail/webkit-dev/2022-March/032162.html)
and [TAG
reviewers](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/718#issue-1165654549).

> We are working to evaluate the best solution for these open questions:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We are working to evaluate the best solutions for these open questions:
```

  we are super excited to see the progress on
  [passkeys](http://goo.gle/passkeys) and to work on providing a coherent and
  cohesive experience between FedCM, Passwords, WebAuthn and WebOTP.
* **Login Status**: As Apple suggested with the Privacy CG’s [Login Status
  API](https://github.com/privacycg/is-logged-in), we share the intuition that
  the user’s login status is a useful bit of information that can help browsers
  make informed decisions, and we are excited to see what opportunities arise
  from that.
* **Enterprises and Education**: As is clear at the FedID CG, there are still [a
  lot of use
  cases](https://github.com/fedidcg/use-case-library/blob/main/decision_tree_flows/login/Federated%20Login%20OIDC%20Oauth2%20Auth%20Code%20Flow.png)
  that are not well served by FedCM that we’d like to work on, such as  
  front-channel logout (the ability for an IdP to send a signal to RPs to
  logout) and support for SAML.
* **Relationship with mDLs/VCs/etc**: continue working to understand how these
  fit within FedCM, for example with the [Mobile Document Request
  API](https://github.com/WICG/mobile-document-request-api).

> ## How can identity providers develop FedCM?

Reviewer 3: This section lacks a lot of things an IDP would need to do in order to use FedCM. In particular, the requirements mentioned are RP requirements, no? This could be renamed maybe to "What are requirements on sites to invoke the FedCM API?"

Author: Originally this section had origin trial registration instructions but they are removed and the leftover is not suitable for the title. I thought of moving this close to the RP's sign-in API part, but thought it's not suitable. Let me try some changes so it suits better. Changing the title to "How can you develop FedCM?".

You need a secure context (HTTPS or localhost) in Chrome to use the FedCM.

### Debug code on Chrome on Android {: #remote-debug-android}

Set up and run a server locally to debug your FedCM code. You can [access this
server in Chrome on an Android device connected using a USB cable with port
forwarding](/docs/devtools/remote-debugging/local-server/).

You can use DevTools on desktop to debug Chrome on Android by following the
instructions at [Remote debug Android
devices](/docs/devtools/remote-debugging/).

## Use the FedCM API {: #use-api }

You integrate with FedCM by creating [a well-known file](#well-known-file),
[config file and endpoints](#idp-config-file) for [accounts
list](#accounts-list-endpoint), [assertion issuance](#id-assertion-endpoint) and
optionally [client metadata](#client-metadata-endpoint).

From there, FedCM exposes JavaScript APIs that RPs can use to [sign

> in](#sign-into-rp) from the IdP.

Reviewer: s/from the IdP/with the IdP

### Create a well-known file {: #well-known-file }

To prevent [trackers from abusing the
API](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/230), a well-known file must be
served from `/.well-known/web-identity` of
[eTLD+1](https://web.dev/same-site-same-origin/#same-site-cross-site) of the
IdP.

> For example, if an IdP endpoints are served under

Reviewer: s/an/the

`https://accounts.idp.example/sub/`, they must serve a well-known file at

> `https://idp.example/.well-known/web-identity` as well as [an IdP config

Reviewer 3: This example is unclear because this depends on what's the domain. It could be accounts.idp.example

file](#idp-config-file). Here's an example well-known file content:

```json
{
  "provider_urls": ["https://accounts.idp.example/sub/anything.json"]
}
```

The JSON file must contain the `provider_urls` property with an array of [IdP
config file](#idp-config-file) URLs that can be [specified as a path part of
`configURL` in `navigator.credentials.get` by RPs](#sign-into-rp). The number of
URL strings in the array is limited to one, but this may change with [your
feedback](#next-steps) in the future.

### Create an IdP config file and endpoints {: #idp-config-file }

The IdP config file provides a list of required endpoints for the browser. IdPs
will host this config file and the required endpoints. All JSON response must be
served with `application/json` content type.

The config file's URL is determined by the values provided to the
[`navigator.credentials.get` call executed on an RP](#sign-into-rp).

```javascript
const credential = await navigator.credentials.get({
  identity: {
    providers: [{

>       configURL: 'https://idp.example/anything.json',

Reviewer 3: ### 
```suggestion
      configURL: 'https://idp.example/config.json',
```

    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tr>
    <td><code>accounts_endpoint</code> (required)</td>
    <td>URL for the <a href="#accounts-list-endpoint">accounts list endpoint</a>.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
     <td><code>client_metadata_endpoint</code> (optional)</td>
     <td>URL for the <a href="#client-metadata-endpoint">client metadata endpoint</a>.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
     <td><code>id_assertion_endpoint</code> (required)</td>
     <td>URL for the <a href="#id-assertion-endpoint">ID assertion endpoint</a>.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
     <td><code>branding</code> (optional)</td>
     <td>Object which contains various branding options.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
     <td><code>branding.background_color</code> (optional)</td>
     <td>Background color of the "Continue as..." button. Use the relevant CSS syntax, namely
<a href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-4/#typedef-hex-color"><code>hex-color</code></a>,
<a href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-5/#funcdef-hsl"><code>hsl()</code></a>,
<a href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-5/#funcdef-rgb"><code>rgb()</code></a>, or
<a href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-4/#typedef-named-color"><code>named-color</code></a>.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>      <td><code>branding.color</code> (optional)</td>

Reviewer: This should be the color of the text not the button. The button background is specified by branding.background_color

     <td>Branding option which sets the background color of the "Continue as..." button. Use the relevant CSS syntax, namely
<a href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-4/#typedef-hex-color"><code>hex-color</code></a>,
<a href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-5/#funcdef-hsl"><code>hsl()</code></a>,
<a href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-5/#funcdef-rgb"><code>rgb()</code></a>, or
<a href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-4/#typedef-named-color"><code>named-color</code></a>.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
     <td><code>branding.icons</code> (optional)</td>
     <td>Branding option which sets the icon object, displayed in the sign-in dialog. The icon object is an array with two parameters:
        <ul>
           <li><code>url</code> (required): URL of the icon image. This does not support SVG images.<li>

>            <li><code>size</code> (optional): icon dimensions, assumed by the application to be square and single resolution. This number must be greater than or equal to 25.</li>

Reviewer: The icon must be squared

         </ul>
      </td>
  </tr>
</table>

{% Img

>    src="image/VbsHyyQopiec0718rMq2kTE1hke2/rFrfrCL0awt5zmyqvaM9.jpg", alt="How branding is applied to the FedCM dialog", width="600", height="332", class="screenshot"

Reviewer 3: nit: would be nice to have this image look a big bigger, it is hard to read.

%}

Here's an example response body from the IdP:

```json
{
  "accounts_endpoint": "/accounts.php",
  "client_metadata_endpoint": "/metadata.php",
  "id_assertion_endpoint": "/id_assertions.php",
  "branding": {
    "background_color": "green",
    "color": "0xFFEEAA",
    "icons": [{
      "url": "https://idp.example/icon.ico",
      "size": 25
    }]
  }
}
```

Once the browser fetches the config file, it sends subsequent requests to the
IdP endpoints:

{%

>   Img src="image/YLflGBAPWecgtKJLqCJHSzHqe2J2/8EzrPvIwOsuuzdKJUJ6E.png", alt="IdP endpoints", width="800", height="419", class="type--full-bleed"

Reviewer: This image does not include the well-known file. Here's the most up to date flowchart: https://fedidcg.github.io/FedCM/#high-level-design

Author: Actually, this image is really handy and solves the text size issue as well. I'll borrow this one :D

```json
{
  "privacy_policy_url": "https://rp.example/privacy_policy.html",
  "terms_of_service_url": "https://rp.example/terms_of_service.html",
}
```

The returned client metadata is consumed by the browser and will not be
available to the RP.

#### ID assertion endpoint {: #id-assertion-endpoint }

The IdP's ID assertion endpoint returns an assertion for their signed-in user.
When the user signs in to an RP website using [`navigator.credentials.get()`
call](#sign-into-rp), the browser sends a `POST` request with cookies and a
content type of `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` to this endpoint with the
following information:

<table class="with-heading-tint with-borders">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Property</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tr>
    <td><code>client_id</code> (required)</td>
    <td>The RP's client identifier.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
     <td><code>account_id</code> (required)</td>
     <td>The unique ID of the signing in user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
     <td><code>nonce</code> (optional)</td>
     <td>The request nonce, provided by the RP.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
     <td><code>disclosure_text_shown</code></td>

>      <td>Results in a string of <code>"true"</code> or <code>"false"</code> (rather than a boolean). The result is <code>"false"</code> if the disclosure text was not shown. This happens when the RP's client ID was included in the <code>approved_clients</code> property list of the response from the <a href="#accounts-list-endpoint">accounts list endpoint</a>.</td>

Reviewer: It could also happen if the browser has observed a sign-up moment in the past in the absence of `approved_clients`.

  </tr>
</table>

Example HTTP header:

```http
POST /id_assertions.php HTTP/1.1
Host: idp.example
Referer: https://rp.example/
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Cookie: 0x23223
Sec-Fetch-Dest: webidentity
account_id=123&client_id=client1234&nonce=Ct60bD&disclosure_text_shown=true
```

On the server, the IdP should confirm that:

1. The claimed account ID matches the ID for the account that is already
   signed in. 
2. The `Referer` header matches the origin the RP, registered in advance
   for the given client ID.

{% Aside 'warning' %}

Since the domain verification on OAuth or OpenID Connect relies on a browser
redirect, it's critical in FedCM that the IdP server checks a `Referer` header value
matches the RP's registered origin.

{% endAside %}

The browser expects a JSON response that includes the following property:

<table class="with-heading-tint with-borders">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Property</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tr>
    <td><code>token</code> (required)</td>
    <td>A token is a string that contains claims about the authentication.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

```json
{

>   "token": "eyJ********"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  "token": "********"
```

Not sure what the first 3 chars are about...

}
```

The returned token is passed to the RP by the browser, so that the RP can
validate the authentication.

### Sign in to the identity provider from the relying party {: #sign-into-rp }

Once the IdP's configuration and endpoints are available, RPs can call

> `navigator.credentials.get()` to request allowing users to sign in to the IdP

Reviewer: Why is this "sign in to the IdP from the RP"? I suppose you meant "allowing users to sign in to the RP with the IdP"? Same for the title above at line 718.

Author: Not sure why. Fixed. Thanks for the catch!

the user hasn't previously signed up for the RP in this browser.

<figure class="float-right screenshot" style="max-width:300px">
{% Video
   src="video/YLflGBAPWecgtKJLqCJHSzHqe2J2/Qx48SEGIEqi5OtPE9ogn.mp4",
   width="280", autoplay="true"
%}
  <figcaption>A user signs into an RP using FedCM</figcaption>
</figure>

When the RP calls `navigator.credentials.get()`, the following activities take
place:

1. The browser sends requests and fetches several documents:
    1. [The well-known file](#well-known-file) and [an IdP config
       file](#idp-config-file) which declare endpoints.
    2. [An accounts list](#accounts-list-endpoint).
    3. Optional: URLs for the RP's privacy policy and terms of service,
       retrieved from the [client metadata endpoint](#client-metadata-endpoint).
2. The browser displays the list of accounts that the user can use to sign-in,
   as well as the terms of service and privacy policy if available.
3. Once the user chooses an account to sign in with, a request to [the ID
   assertion endpoint](#id-assertion-endpoint) is sent to the IdP to retrieve a
   token.
4. The RP can validate the token to authenticate the user.

> {%

Reviewer 3: ditto too small

>   Img src="image/YLflGBAPWecgtKJLqCJHSzHqe2J2/8EzrPvIwOsuuzdKJUJ6E.png",

Reviewer: We have the exact same image above. As a matter of fact, I think there's some duplication to explain the API flow. Do you think we should keep both? Just want to raise the question since the canonical page has been updated multiple times and the duplication could be unintentional.

Author: The reason being this is far below enough from the other image and we repeat the info exchange from the RP perspective again here. I thought it's good idea to repeat the image here rather than forcing the reader to go back and forth to look back at the diagram.

alt="login API call", width="800", height="419", class="type--full-bleed"
%}

{% Aside 'caution' %}

FedCM is designed to not inform the RP of the user's IdP sign-in state until the
user explicitly confirms to **Continue as** and signs in. This means RPs aren't
informed of connection to the FedCM API if: the user isn't signed into the IdP,
the accounts list endpoint returns an empty list, or the endpoint returns an
error.

RPs are expected to support browsers which don't support FedCM, therefore
users should be able to use an existing, non-FedCM sign-in process. Until
third-party cookies are phased out completely, this should remain
non-problematic.

{% endAside %}

Once the token is validated by the RP server, the RP may register the user or
let them sign-in and start a new session.

## Engage and share feedback {: #share-feedback}

> *  **GitHub**: Read the

Reviewer 3: Should probably link the explainer too as that is most relevant https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/blob/main/explainer.md

   width="800", height="678", class="screenshot"
%}

## Support and compatibility {: #compatibility }
  
FedCM is supported in Chrome on all platforms.

> FedCM isn't supported by other browsers yet, but Mozilla is [implementing a

Reviewer: ditto

prototype](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1782066) to Firefox and
[WebKit team has expressed general support and interest in working together on
the FedCM
proposal](https://lists.webkit.org/pipermail/webkit-dev/2022-March/032162.html).

## How can identity providers develop FedCM?

> You need a secure context (HTTPS or localhost) on Chrome to use the Federated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need a secure context (HTTPS or localhost) in Chrome to use the Federated
```

> You need a secure context (HTTPS or localhost) in Chrome to use the Federated

Reviewer: s/Federated Credential Management/FedCM

Credential Management API.

### Debug code on Chrome on Android {: #remote-debug-android}

Set up and run a server locally to debug your FedCM code. You can [access this
server in Chrome on an Android device connected using a USB cable with port
forwarding](/docs/devtools/remote-debugging/local-server/).

You can use DevTools on desktop to debug Chrome on Android by following the
instructions at [Remote debug Android
devices](/docs/devtools/remote-debugging/).

## Use the FedCM API {: #use-api }

> You integrate with FedCM by creating [a well-known file, config file and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You integrate with FedCM by creating [a `well-known` file, config file and
```

> You integrate with FedCM by creating [a well-known file, config file and

Reviewer: you mentioned well-known file first here, perhaps follow the same order below?

Author: Swapped the order.

<a href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-5/#funcdef-hsl"><code>hsl()</code></a>,
<a href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-5/#funcdef-rgb"><code>rgb()</code></a>, or
<a href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-4/#typedef-named-color"><code>named-color</code></a>.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
     <td><code>branding.color</code> (optional)</td>
     <td>Branding option which sets the background color of the "Continue as..." button. Use the relevant CSS syntax, namely
<a href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-4/#typedef-hex-color"><code>hex-color</code></a>,
<a href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-5/#funcdef-hsl"><code>hsl()</code></a>,
<a href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-5/#funcdef-rgb"><code>rgb()</code></a>, or
<a href="https://drafts.csswg.org/css-color-4/#typedef-named-color"><code>named-color</code></a>.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
     <td><code>branding.icons</code> (optional)</td>
     <td>Branding option which sets the icon object, displayed in the sign-in dialog. The icon object is an array with two parameters:
        <ul>
           <li><code>url</code> (required): URL of the icon image. This does not support SVG images.<li>

>            <li><code>size</code> (optional): icon dimensions, assumed by the application to be square and single resolution. This number must be greater or equal to 25.</li>

Reviewer: nit: greater than or equal to

         </ul>
      </td>
  </tr>
</table>

{% Img
   src="image/VbsHyyQopiec0718rMq2kTE1hke2/rFrfrCL0awt5zmyqvaM9.jpg", alt="How branding is applied to the FedCM dialog", width="600", height="332", class="screenshot"
%}

Here's an example response body from the IdP:

```json
{
  "accounts_endpoint": "/accounts.php",
  "client_metadata_endpoint": "/metadata.php",
  "id_assertion_endpoint": "/id_assertions.php",
  "branding": {
    "background_color": "green",
    "color": "0xFFEEAA",
    "icons": [{
      "url": "https://idp.example/icon.ico",
      "size": 25
    }]
  }
}
```

Once the browser fetches the config file, it sends subsequent requests to the
IdP endpoints:

{%
  Img src="image/YLflGBAPWecgtKJLqCJHSzHqe2J2/8EzrPvIwOsuuzdKJUJ6E.png", alt="IdP endpoints", width="800", height="419", class="type--full-bleed"
%}

{% Aside 'caution' %}

If the RP deploys [Content Security Policy
(CSP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP) on the page FedCM is
called and enforce `connect-src` directive, they must explicitly allow endpoints

> and icon image URLs described in the config file.

Reviewer: `img-src` is not required for the icon image. Only the path `https://idp.example/path/to/fedcm/` is required in `connect-src`.

Author: Removed a mention of icon image.

To prevent [trackers from abusing the
API](https://github.com/fedidcg/FedCM/issues/230), an additional well-known file
must be served from `/.well-known/web-identity` of
[eTLD+1](https://web.dev/same-site-same-origin/#same-site-cross-site) of the
IdP.

For example, if an IdP serves [an IdP config file](#idp-config-file) at
`https://accounts.idp.example/sub/anything.json`, they must also serve a
well-known file at `https://idp.example/.well-known/web-identity` with the
following content:

```json
{
  "provider_urls": ["https://accounts.idp.example/sub/anything.json"]
}
```

The JSON file must contain the `provider_urls` property with an array of URL
strings that can be [specified as a path part of `configURL` in
`navigator.credentials.get` by RPs](#sign-into-rp). The number of URL strings
in the array is limited to one, but this may change with [your
feedback](#next-steps) in the future.

#### Client metadata endpoint {: #client-metadata-endpoint }

The IdP's client metadata endpoint returns the relying party's metadata such as
the RP's privacy policy and terms of service. RPs should provide links to their
privacy policy and terms of service to the IdP in advance. These links are

> displayed in the sign-in dialog when the user hasn't registered with the RP yet.

Reviewer: nit: hasn't registered on the RP with the IdP

Host: idp.example
Referer: https://rp.example/
Accept: application/json
Sec-Fetch-Dest: webidentity
```

The properties for the client metadata endpoint include:

<table class="with-heading-tint with-borders">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Property</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tr>
    <td><code>privacy_policy_url</code> (optional)</td>
    <td>RP privacy policy URL.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
     <td><code>terms_of_service_url</code> (optional)</td>
     <td>RP terms of service URL.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

The browser expects a JSON response from the endpoint:

```json
{
  "privacy_policy_url": "https://rp.example/privacy_policy.html",
  "terms_of_service_url": "https://rp.example/terms_of_service.html",
}
```

The returned client metadata is consumed by the browser and will not be
available to the RP.

#### Accounts list endpoint {: #accounts-list-endpoint }

The IdP's accounts list endpoint returns a list of accounts that the user is
currently signed in on the IdP. If the IdP supports multiple accounts, this
endpoint will return all signed in accounts.

The browser sends a `GET` request with cookies, but without a `client_id`

> parameter and the `Referer` header. This effectively prevents the IdP from

Reviewer: s/and/or

learning which RP the user is trying to sign in to. For example:

```http
GET /accounts.php HTTP/1.1
Host: idp.example
Accept: application/json
Cookie: 0x23223
Sec-Fetch-Dest: webidentity
```

The browser expects a JSON response that includes an `accounts` property
with an array of account information with following properties:

<table class="with-heading-tint with-borders">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Property</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tr>
    <td><code>id</code> (required)</td>
    <td>Unique ID of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>name</code> (required)</td>
    <td>Given and family name of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>email</code> (required)</td>

>     <td>Email address of the user</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <td>Email address of the user.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>given_name</code> (optional)</td>
    <td>Given name of the user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>picture</code> (optional)</td>

>     <td>URL of the user avatar image</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <td>URL of the user avatar image.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>approved_clients</code> (optional)</td>

>     <td>An array of RP client IDs which the user has registered with</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <td>An array of RP client IDs which the user has registered with.</td>
```

  </tr>
</table>

Example response body:

```json
{
 "accounts": [{
   "id": "1234",
   "given_name": "John",
   "name": "John Doe",
   "email": "john_doe@idp.example",
   "picture": "https://idp.example/profile/123",
   "approved_clients": ["123", "456", "789"],
  }, {
   "id": "5678",
   "given_name": "Johnny",
   "name": "Johnny",
   "email": "johnny@idp.example",
   "picture": "https://idp.example/profile/456"
   "approved_clients": ["abc", "def", "ghi"],
  }]
}
```

> If the user is not signed in, respond with HTTP 401 (Unauthorized).

Reviewer: Do we need to specify the response error?

Author: I had this conversation with @samuelgoto and agreed with this error code.

The returned accounts list is consumed by the browser and will not be
available to the RP.

#### ID assertion endpoint {: #id-assertion-endpoint }

The IdP's ID assertion endpoint returns an assertion for their signed-in user.
When the user signs in to an RP website using [`navigator.credentials.get()`
call](#sign-into-rp), the browser sends a `POST` request with cookies and a
content type of `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` to this endpoint with the
following information:

<table class="with-heading-tint with-borders">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Property</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tr>
    <td><code>client_id</code> (required)</td>
    <td>The RP's client identifier.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
     <td><code>account_id</code> (required)</td>
     <td>The unique ID of the signing in user.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
     <td><code>nonce</code> (optional)</td>
     <td>The request nonce, provided by the RP.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
     <td><code>disclosure_text_shown</code></td>

>      <td>Results in a string of <code>true</code> or <code>false</code> (rather than a boolean). The result is <code>false</code> if the RP's client ID was included in the <code>approved_clients</code> property list and the sign-in dialog displayed both the privacy policy and the terms of service.</td>

Reviewer: if it's false, it means that disclosure text was not shown. i.e. the dialog displayed neither of them

Author: Fixed. Please check.

      nonce: '******'
    }]
  }
});
const { token } = credential;
```

The `providers` property takes an array of [`IdentityProvider`
objects](https://fedidcg.github.io/FedCM/#dictdef-identityprovider) that have
the following properties:

<table class="with-heading-tint with-borders">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Property</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tr>
    <td><code>configURL</code> (required)</td>
    <td>A full path of the IdP config file.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
     <td><code>clientId</code> (required)</td>
     <td>The RP's client identifier, issued by the IdP.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>nonce</code> (optional)</td>
    <td>A random string to ensure the response is issued for this specific request. Prevents replay attacks.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

The browser handles sign-up and sign-in use cases differently depending on the
existence of `approved_clients` in the response from [the accounts list
endpoint](#accounts-list-endpoint). The browser will only display [the RP's
privacy policy and terms of service](#client-metadata-endpoint) in the dialog if
`approved_clients` isn't provided or does not include the RP's `clientId` and

> the user hasn't previously signed p for the RP in this browser.

Reviewer: s/p/up
